Add code quality documentation (#630)
sider/sider-docs: docs/getting-started/code-quality.md

---
id: code-quality
title: Code Quality
sidebar_label: Code Quality
hide_title: true
---

# Code Quality

You can analyze all files in the branch of the repository, and you can see the issues and code metrics for your code quality.

## Branch Analysis

If you want to see the code quality of your repository, you need to analyze your branch manually or configure [Analysis Branches](../getting-started/repository-settings.md#branches).

To analyze your branch manually, open the dashboard of the Sider and click the repository that you want to see the code quality.

> ![Sider dashboard](../assets/code-quality/sider-dashboard.jpg)

Reviewer: I'm a bit worried your name on the image. Can you edit the image to remove it? If you don't mind, keep it as is.

> ![Sider dashboard](../assets/code-quality/sider-dashboard.jpg)

Reviewer: ⬆️  How about this comment?
I have verified other changes. Thank you.

> ![Sider dashboard](../assets/code-quality/sider-dashboard.jpg)

Author: @suetsuguk 
Thanks for your review!
I removed my personal account from the image on https://github.com/sider/sider-docs/pull/630/commits/4ee2c904660c3dfa48b7c9698d8c1e637fea7a42?short_path=500586e#diff-500586ed376eea7af39f94a2107e2d57e9ab9f0178f852352f5ab6cde33ac2c0

So, when you use the `Files` tab, you can find easily which files or directories are needed to refactor.

## Inspections

On the `Inspections` tab, you can see the code quality of your repository with visualization. The charts on the Inspections tab show quality metrics versus how often code is changing (churn). And points on individual charts are limited to the highest 30 of churn values.

![Inspections tab](../assets/code-quality/inspections-tab.jpg)

You can click a point to see its file name and metrics values on the indication area.

- Complexity: complexity in the file.
- Duplicates: code duplicates in the file. The chart shows the duplication ratio(sum of duplicated line / LOC).
- Issues: total amount of issues in the file. The chart shows the density of issues(number of issues / LOC).
- LOC: total lines of code in the file.

## Issues

On the `Issues` tab, you can see all issues in your branch of the repository.

![Issues tab](../assets/code-quality/issues-tab.jpg)

You can filter the issues by tools or severities using `Advanced search`, and also you can filter by file or directory using `Directory tree`.

## Analysis tools

> For the code quality, we use `Metrics Code Clone`, `Metrics Complexity`, and `Metrics File Info` of the analysis tools in [Sider Runners](https://github.com/sider/runners)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our analysis tools `Metrics Code Clone`, `Metrics Complexity`, and `Metrics File Info` of [Runners](https://github.com/sider/runners) are used to measure the code quality.
```

> - Metrics Code Clone: this analysis tool makes the code duplicates in the file.
> - Metrics Complexity: this analysis tool makes the complexity in the file.
> - Metrics File Info: this analysis tool makes the last committed time and total line of the code(LOC) in the file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Metrics Code Clone: measures the code duplication
- Metrics Complexity: measures the complexity
- Metrics File Info: measures the lines of code(LOC)
```

> All issues are generated from your [Analysis tools](../getting-started/repository-settings.md#tools) configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Other tools selected at [Analysis tools](../getting-started/repository-settings.md#tools): measure the number of issues 
```

> The `Metrics Code Clone` and `Metrics Complexity` have the limitation of the languages. Check the following table. If you use not supported languages, the `Metrics Code Clone` and `Metrics Complexity` can't generate results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Metrics Code Clone` and `Metrics Complexity` have the limitation of the languages. Check the following table. The `Metrics Code Clone` and `Metrics Complexity` can't generate results for files of unsupported languages.
```

| Language    | Metrics Code Clone | Metrics Complexity |
| ----------- | ------------------ | ------------------ |

> | C++         | ◯                  | ◯                  |

Reviewer: ✔️  and `-` instead of `o` and `x` could be better.

| C#          | ◯                  | ◯                  |
| Fortran     | ×                  | ◯                  |
| GDScript    | ×                  | ◯                  |
| Golang      | ◯                  | ◯                  |
| Java        | ◯                  | ◯                  |
| JavaScript  | ◯                  | ◯                  |
| Kotlin      | ◯                  | ×                  |
| Lua         | ×                  | ◯                  |

> | Objective-C | ◯                  | ◯                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Objective-C | x                  | ◯                  |
```

Author: Doesn't PMD/CPD support `Objective-C`? :thinking:

![Screen Shot 2021-07-02 at 9 36 07](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42969906/124204075-2e287200-db19-11eb-9a0a-e75114a275e3.jpg)

Reviewer: Our runner supports only 10 languages of them by default. The list is defined here;
- https://github.com/sider/runners/blob/8a730fb5a0d54b4cb65b2a88e7a5cde8543dd241/lib/runners/processor/pmd_cpd.rb#L44-L55
- https://help.sider.review/tools/others/pmd-cpd#language

Author: Fixed it on https://github.com/sider/sider-docs/pull/630/commits/072c8dbcf5090b7f01aff8ed5160bd6d59d4d233
Thanks!

---
id: code-quality
title: Code Quality
sidebar_label: Code Quality
hide_title: true
---

# Code Quality

Sider analyzes all files in a branch of your repositories and show the issues and code metrics for each file. It helps you understand the current quality of code and find which files need to be refactored.

## Branch Analysis

If you want to see the code quality of your repository, you need to start analysis manually or configure [Analysis Branches](../getting-started/repository-settings.md#branches).

To analyze your branch manually, open the dashboard of Sider and select a repository to analyze.

![Sider dashboard](../assets/code-quality/sider-dashboard.jpg)

You will see the `Branches` tab at the top of the screen. And when you click the `Branches` tab, you will see the branch list of your repository.

![Branch list of the repository](../assets/code-quality/branch-list.jpg)

> Click the `Analyze` button on the right side of the branch that you want to analyze. After all analysis has been completed, you can see the issues and code metrics on the following tabs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the `Analyze` button on the right side of the branch that you want to analyze. After all analysis has been completed, you can see the issues and code metrics on the results tabs described in the following sections.
```

There are no tabs in THIS section. So this could be a better explanation.

## Files

After analyzing the branch, you can see the details of the result when you click the branch.

![Branch list of the repository](../assets/code-quality/files-tab.jpg)

> On the `Files` tab, You can see the `Duplicates`, `Complexity`, `LOC`, `Issues` and `Last commit` for each file and directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the `Files` tab, you can see the `Duplicates`, `Complexity`, `LOC`, `Issues` and `Last commit` for each file and directory.
```
typo.

- Duplicates: the total number of code duplicates in the file or the directory
- Complexity: the total complexity in the file or the maximum value in the directory
- LOC: the total lines of code in the file or the directory
- Issues: the total number of issues in the file or the directory
- Last commit: the last committed time of the file or of all files in the directory

On the `Files` tab, you can explore the directories, show the file content by clicking the file name and find issues highlighted in the code.

![File viewer in the files tab](../assets/code-quality/file-viewer.jpg)

The detailed message of the issue will appear during the mouse hovers over the wavy lines. You can also make the message pinned by clicking the `View Problem` button on the hovering message.

So, the `Files` tab helps you find easily which files or directories need to be refactored.

## Inspections

> The `Inspections` tab visualizes the code quality of your entire repository. The charts on this tab show several code quality metrics versus how often code is changing (Churn). Plotted points on individual chart indicates files and metrics. The points are limited to the highest 30 of churn values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Inspections` tab visualizes the code quality of your entire repository. The charts on this tab show several code quality metrics versus how often code is changing (Churn). Plotted points on individual chart indicate files and metrics. The points are limited to the highest 30 of churn values.
```
typo.

- Churn: how many times and how much size a file has been changed in the specified period of time (90 days)

![Inspections tab](../assets/code-quality/inspections-tab.jpg)

> You can click a point to see its file name and metrics values on the indication area above the charts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can click any point to see its file name and metrics values on the indication area above the charts.
```
typo.

- Issues: total amount of issues in the file. The chart shows the density of issues(number of issues / LOC).
- LOC: total lines of code in the file.

## Issues

On the `Issues` tab, you can see all issues found in a branch of your repository.

![Issues tab](../assets/code-quality/issues-tab.jpg)

You can filter the issues by tools or severities using `Advanced search`, and also you can filter by file or directory using `Directory tree`.

## Analysis tools

Our analysis tools `Metrics Code Clone`, `Metrics Complexity`, and `Metrics File Info` of [Runners](https://github.com/sider/runners) are used to measure the code quality.

- Metrics Code Clone: measures the code duplication
- Metrics Complexity: measures the complexity
- Metrics File Info: measures the lines of code(LOC)
- Other tools selected at [Analysis tools](../getting-started/repository-settings.md#tools): measure the number of issues

The `Metrics Code Clone` and `Metrics Complexity` have the limitation of the languages. Check the following table. The `Metrics Code Clone` and `Metrics Complexity` can't generate results for files of unsupported languages.

> | Language    | Metrics Code Clone | Metrics Complexity |

Reviewer: How about list only languages Sider supports by our Analysis Tools?
Here are the candidates to remove from this table:
- Fortran
- GDScript
- Lua
- Objective-C
- Rust
- Scala
- TTCN-3
